## A Day in the City

My wife and I were invited to explore some of the art galleries in Pioneer Square and then go to lunch.  It was a wonderful afternoon, but my brain kept losing focus as I peered into the future and what could be.  So I decided to write the story of what an afternoon like that would be like.

---

We left home at 11 to give us plenty of time. We got onto the bus to take us to the nearest light rail station, and clicked our ORCA cards as we entered.  Our ride was logged into the system and when we exited the bus we clicked again to tell the system how far we had gone. Our share of the cost for the ride in the bus was deducted from our account.  That cost was simply our share of the weight bearing for the bus, and the amount of battery power it took to transport us to our destination.  All of the buses are electric now, and longer trips cost more, but it’s fractions of a penny of difference because the price of power is so low these days. And the bus was rather full today because it was a Saturday, and so we shared that cost with more people.

When we got to the rail system, we checked our accounts and realized that our Expense accounts were getting a bit low so we topped them off by adding about 400 sats worth of capital to our Asset accounts with Sound Transit.

That might seem odd from the perspective of someone who is reading this before the transformation so let me explain.  Every ORCA card in the system has both an Asset account and an Expense account.  When we establish a card, we put capital into the Asset account, and it is invested in one of the Lightning Network Yield protocols, which compete in the market for deposits by maintaining their returns high.  The government establishes contracts with the top 10 Yield chains each year. Right now those chains are giving a return rate of between 4 and 6 percent per year, which is very similar to the rates of the old Municipal Bonds, but much easier for the governments to use. The return from our Asset accounts comes in every few days, and that return is split in half. One half goes to the Expense account for us to use and the other half goes to the Asset account to compound.  The cost of using the transit system comes out of our Expense accounts, and if that gets low, we can either boost it up directly or the extra cost comes out of our Asset accounts.  The actual cost of using the system is really low, but if you use it a great deal those costs add up.  So we try to keep our Asset accounts high enough so that our Expense accounts always have enough for wherever we want to go.

The most important aspect of this is that the Asset accounts are ours. We can deposit as much or as little as we want into those accounts, and people who ride the system a lot usually have very high balances so they never have to worry about running low. It acts just like a savings account, earning between 4 and 6%, with half always going back to compound. If we get a job in a different city or county, we can simply apply for another local transit card in that other jurisdiction and transfer our Asset balance from one to the other. The Expense account would all go to the previous jurisdiction after a few years of non-use.

There are competing networks, which makes sense in a well functioning market economy. The government run bus and local rail lines are only one option, there is also the Tesla network, Lyft, Uber and local cab companies.  It’s easy to transfer Asset balances between them, and you can keep your transit wallets tracked together in any number of different Wallet as a Service apps.  We can see at a glance how much we have in Assets and Expenses for all of the ride services we use.  When we got downtown, just like with the bus ride, we scanned to leave and the cost of the train ride was deducted from our Expense accounts.

The section of town we were traveling to is called Pioneer Square, because it’s the oldest part of the city.  After the transition to the new monetary system, the art scene took off with studios buying more and more of the properties and the influx of capital had a profound effect.  It is beautiful. We walked into one after another, looking at the paintings and sculptures created by the hands of hundreds of people in the Seattle area.  Each time we found a piece of art that we found beautiful or profound, we would discuss what it meant and how much value we gained from it, then we would scan the QR code and deposit a small amount into that artist’s Community Asset Wallet as a donation. With the weekend as busy as it was, there were hundreds of people scanning hundreds of codes for the pieces that they enjoyed, and the artists were able to pay their expenses from their portion of the returns from those investments.

This operates much like the Asset and Expense accounts that we used for transportation, but in this case we could scan the QR code for a studio to gain access, or to support an artist that we enjoyed, or a particular piece of art that we really enjoyed.  And again, the capital in those Asset account deposits is ours. We have the ability to deposit as much or as little as we want, the system doesn’t have minimums.  New artists can apply for grants from the larger studios and they get a deposit of funds in an asset account which generates the capital they need to pay their expenses.  

This is now a global system, and actually going downtown, while a treat, is not really necessary for everyone.  We don’t have access to anyone else’s wallet on the system, but everything is on a public blockchain and we can see which artists are popular. This Art Weekend is bringing the eyes of millions of people from all over the world, and they have access to the same QR codes and wallet systems that we do.  Artists that are globally popular for music, the performing arts, movies and other types of large scale media have just as much money as they ever did, but they also have to do the work to keep that popularity because a mistake can cost them millions.  The Asset accounts of the larger studios generate the return to pay most of the expenses for the larger franchise movies and TV shows, but their contracts with the actors, artists and production staff allow them to follow the will of the crowd, so if an artist does something that causes them to lose favor, they may not keep the asset account balance and revenue stream that comes from it. It doesn’t belong to them, it belongs to their fans and the studios.  Get caught breaking the law or doing something that people don’t like, and your asset accounts can be drained by the next morning, leaving you only with the expense accounts to live on until you can clean up your act.  Of course there will be die hard supporters, but even if those help keep you off the street they’re not going to have the clout to get you back into new contracts.

We stopped for coffee at a local shop and used the facilities. The coffee is great, and the bathroom door opens with a scan of the QR code that the building has posted.  The assets transferred generate the capital for maintenance and cleaning of the building and the surrounding streets and neighborhood.  Some of the buildings are mixed residential and commercial (art studios) so keeping the water running and internet up takes as much today as ever.  It’s just the way it is paid that has changed, with visitors paying directly as expenses or creating Asset/Expense wallets for places that they visit on a regular basis.  I think those used to be called Bar Tabs, right?  Something like that.  It all works perfectly.

One of the shops has a focus on NorthWest Native American art, and we found two pieces that we decided would look fantastic in our stairwell at home.  We pay for the prints out of our expense accounts, and look at the receipt. Most of the money goes directly to the artist, and the remainder is shared by the studio and the building as well as the local government. Taxes didn’t go away after the changeover but they changed radically because the people could see what services that the government was providing that needed support, and which ones were not worth supporting.  An office with a good reputation had all the money they could need, with excess Expense revenue going into the general fund. People could pay for those services at the expense level, or make deposits into the Asset account to pay ongoing expenses like electricity bills, trash pickup or road maintenance. On our receipt, we could see a QR code that we could scan when we got home that would provide us with all of the information we could possibly ask for and more related to what projects are ongoing in Pioneer Square and beyond that the money was going to.  It’s actually treated as an art form to be able to assemble the raw data on the blockchain into a visual display that made sense to people. News organizations like the Seattle Times have dedicated staff combing through that data to find grift and waste.

It’s late afternoon and it’s time to go to the late lunch we’ve been looking forward to.  This seafood restaurant has been at this location for decades, and it’s pricey.  But the food is worth the price, and we give a nice tip to the staff, which goes into their Asset account.  The Expense revenue generated is shared by the entire staff and the seafood company, and those accounts are growing substantially.  They have enough of a revenue stream to pay a living wage to all of their employees, even the new girl who just started this past week.

As we ride the train and bus back home, it’s hard to imagine how hard it was before the change. Having to keep track to the penny of how much money we were spending because once we spent it it was gone forever. Nowadays, the entire system just works so well that we can get in touch with our friend who lives in Kakuma, Kenya to show him the art we bought and check in on how his Asset accounts are doing. He is a teacher in a primary school that was built on the University campus of the old Kakuma Refugee Camp which received such a flood of support when the blockchain accounts were launched that he was able to build a new house for his family and a new building for his music and dance classes.  By the time we get home, we are up to date on the local news and we can sit back to enjoy the latest Star Trek episode.  We love those sci-fi franchises.

So that was our day.  How was yours?
