## World Development with Bitcoin

Tom realizes that he has some extra money in his budget, thanks to paying off a credit card.  He checks the website "Our World in Data", and sees that the country with the highest share of the population living in extreme poverty is Madagascar, at 77.60%.  He decides to do something to help the people in that country.  He then goes to the website of "WorldDevelopment.bitcoin" to focus his investment to a specific project.  It's not a donation, because nobody these days just gives money away.  The website zooms into Madagascar, and shows him the 22 regions, and he can sort  the data down to the fokontany or town.  He decides to focus his charity investment on the capital of Antananarivo. He can see all of the projects that are being funded, and chooses the new solar installation on top of the local middle school.

He establishes a charity wallet on worlddevelopment.bitcoin, and puts 10,000 sats into the wallet.  The wallet earns 4% in Lightning Network Yield, and he can adjust a sliding scale from 2% to 6%.  Because he still has some debt to pay off, he sets the donation scale to 25%, meaning that when his staking rewards come in, 3/4ths of his rewards go back into his wallet, and 1/4 go towards the development project in Antananarivo that he selected.

Each month, he takes the gains that he has earned from the staking reward and goes to pay more of his debt.  When that is paid off, he increases the balance in the charity wallet.  After a year, he has 100,000 sats in that wallet, earning 4,000 annually, with 1,000 going to help the people of Antananarivo.

That doesn’t sound like much, but Tom is only one of millions of people around the world making these sorts of investments.  Some of them are driven by political motivations and focus their wallets into donations in their own cities, districts and countries to elect leaders that actually know how to do their jobs.  Some of them are focused on a particular type of development, either water, sewer, food production or electrical grid generation services.  Some still focus on the megacorps, investing in the new battery manufacturing plant that Tesla opened up in Abidjan in the Ivory Coast.  Everyone has their idea of what the best type of investment is, but they all follow the single most important rule of investing.  Don't lose money.  And with the new Lightning Yield system, nobody ever has to lose money by making poor investments again.  If something isn't getting the results that they want or something else catches their eye, they simply change where the money goes.  With millions, even billions, of people around the world focused on what they care about the most, everyone wins.
